Assignment 1 My Profile

My name is Jack Abdo and I am currently completing two introductory subjects online at RMIT, Introduction to IT and Introduction to Programming. My previous education includes a high school certificate from Box Hill Senior as well as a Certificate IV in Business Administration from Swinburne in 2018 and a Diploma in Sports Coaching and Development completed in 2019 at La Trobe. My background is half Italian and half Lebanese however I was born in Australia and so were my parents making me a 2nd Generation Australian, previous to that one set of my grandparents were originally from Lebanon and the other pair from Italy.  One fact about me that others may find interesting or may not know is that I am very involved in the sport of basketball as a player, coach and referee and have been for many years. You can reach me at my student email below and my student number will also be mentioned.
S3907636@student.rmit.edu.au	
  

Interest In IT
My interest in IT began during childhood, my fully Lebanese blooded father works for himself as an IT consultant and has for the better part of the last 30 years, as you can imagine whilst growing up there were all sorts of spare computer parts and software discs just lying around the house. By the time I was 5 years old I’d had my own desk with a standard monitor and PC set up, this is when interest started peaking as it involved me learning the basics of how to install games and how to download certain files missing that the game may have needed to run correctly. Given I wasn’t the best at doing this on my own and often there would be times when I would have to call upon my dad for help but the challenge was always there to do it on my own and not have to ask for his help. 
I chose to come to RMIT first and foremost because it’s allowing me to complete these subjects online whilst also being able to continue onto a Bachelor’s Degree. Being able to complete University work online exclusively gives me the time I need to work at my job adequate amounts in order to keep my income stable and in turn also keep my body fit and healthy for which I will train physically during the week.

I expect to learn a great deal during my time at RMIT, in starting though with these two particular subjects I hope to get a better grasp on what the fundamental skills of learning Programming Languages are as well as the functionality and innovativeness currently occurring in the Information Technology section. In addition to this I also hope to find a niche in which I can be both extremely invested in and highly skilled at, once I find this niche that intersects both IT and Programming I hope to turn that into a financially producing action that will help me in future life. 

 Ideal Job   
https://www.seek.com.au/job/51827041?type=standard#searchRequestToken=975fd676-c4c8-492c-9918-04b71be7244a
Game Programmer: The role I found on seek is a Games Programmer for Big Ant Studios which is based in the Melbourne CBD and they are looking for a candidate that is familiar with C++ Programming Language and that has experience in writing games for Mobile Phone and PC related machines. This particular role appealed to me as I’ve always found myself entering the IT industry having a job working on video games because it’s where my interest began as a child downloading and installing them just to see if I could run them on my PC. 
It seems as though they are looking for a candidate who is fluent in C++ language and can understand the limitations that each type of gaming console has, considering each one has different limitations both performance wise and in regards to memory. They would prefer someone who has already had experience working on newer consoles such as the PS4 and Xbox One, but a gaming background isn’t necessary as long as this candidate is fluent in C++ they will be eligible. 
In comparison to the candidate they are looking for in the advertisement, I am quite inexperienced as a programmer having had no formal educational background or experience in working on video games in any capacity let alone the complex tasks mentioned such as UI and developing cutting edge engine technology. Informally I am also inexperienced as a Games Programmer, the only task completed; having attempted to learn the C++ language through reading material to no avail and my brief visits to my dad’s clients over the years, which none of them ever had a problem loading a video game rather it was something related to the day to day operations of their business. 
My plan to become qualified is a simple one, stay enrolled in my subjects at RMIT and in turn hopefully get a better grasp on how to navigate the website so that I can stay up to date with the assignments that need completing rather than being surprised with more than one after an extended period of inactivity and then attempting to do said tasks all at once. 

Personal Profile 
Results of The Myer-Briggs Test: CAMPAIGNER ENFP PERSONALITY TYPE
These test results were quite accurate to me in some aspects and it allowed me to view myself in a different perspective than I had before, I can relate to parts such as the drifting interest in topics and a conscious over investment in things that don’t allow me to get any further. I was forced to review myself in a way I hadn’t in a long time and I was interested in reading through the whole analysis as I felt I was learning more about myself going along. 
This test would force me to be more conscious than I already am in a team setting, especially of my behaviour as I’m becoming more aware of just how much 1 person can effect a group dynamic, when coaching kids it is evident that when my attention is taken away from the group by a singular child misbehaving, then that will affect the success of the activity I’m trying to complete as the rest of the kids become distracted, in other words it is critical to maintain focus. When forming a team I am not so concerned with what can sometimes be out of my control in team/group work where often times a team will be chosen for you, the main focus for me after reading this is making sure that the members of my team can and will find a way to work together that’s beneficial for the entirety of the group.    
Results of the VARK Questionnaire: MULTIMODAL LEARNER (AK)
As it turns out I do not have a singular preference when it comes to learning, meaning simply that when it comes to different aspects of learning I have a certain way I like to learn about things. The VARK Questionnaire gives examples about different lessons being given by different instructors and asks you to choose out of multiple choice answers as to which way you would prefer to learn this type of lesson. While I am still a Multimodal learner I also do have majority preferences in which I prefer to learn. (AK) stands for Aural and Kinesthetic type learning, for which made up 17/21 of my learning preferences chosen; respectively they both made up half of this 17. In conclusion this would mean that someone like me prefers to experience learning in real life such as talking, discussing, listening, questioning, practical exercises, examples, case studies and trial and error. This does affect the way I would work in a team as it seems to be that I rely on real life experience whilst doing an online course, I will obviously have to go out of my way to communicate with team members especially in an online learning setting. When forming a team I will try to choose people similar to me who like to experience their learning, in order to give the most opportunity for success in a project like situation. 

Results of the Big Five Personality Test 
After completing the Big Five Personality Test, I found that the results reflected I scored high in the Tier 1 portion of the marking which means that I am someone that is most likely going to be socially positive and outgoing. I would say this is accurate and in line with the previous results above in regards to myself being someone that prefers real life experiences. A Campaigner ENFP personality such as mine also reflects someone that is highly invested in their social life and gets overly involved with their peers in some cases to the point where they forget about themselves and their own priorities. More specifically I scored the highest in the Intellect/Imagination with an 84 closely followed by Extroversion with 83 both out of 100, I also scored the lowest in Conscientiousness at 41, which is also followed by the second lowest category Agreeableness at 45 both below 50 which does not surprise me either as I’ve always been someone that prefers alternative style. How does this test affect how I work in a team setting, it changes my perspective and makes me want to see out my tasks more efficiently than I have been, I do not agree with the low conscientious mark and would like to prove that wrong both to myself and the test. It still does not change the way I choose my team members. 

 

Project Idea: 

Overview
My Project Idea is more of a concept that has interested me for quite some time, being someone that has always had a passion for Role Playing Video Games probably the most out of any other type of video game and there is always something that I would have liked to have seen which I never have and will explain further. This concept centres around the idea that the user chooses the ending rather than the maker, I’m well aware that there are many ‘Choose your own adventure’ games already invented both for machines and in real life. There’s also movies such as Netflix’s ‘BanderSnatch’ and Steven Spielberg’s ‘Ready Player One’ which break boundaries and give an insight into what I believe will be the future of entertainment where the ending of the story is decided by the viewers decisions and not the maker’s script.

Motivation 
I believe the concept speaks for itself as to why it would be interesting or useful, this kind of service will not only give us the ability to reflect upon ourselves through our decisions made but it will also on a larger scale give us a bigger understanding of why people end up the way they do and more specifically what separates us if not our decisions? Yes I’m talking about a concept where everyone plays the same RPG but has a different ending, which they could then discuss between themselves to compare what went on differently in their unique experience of the game. If you don’t believe me the evidence speaks for itself where interest is concerned as games with ultimate control with the open world such as GTA or Saints Row, even the Sims and Civilization franchises are both massive successes in the gaming industry and multiple possibility endings are both popular in books and movies especially in recent times. Here is an article where Netflix is being sued over their movie ‘BanderSnatch’ for using the terminology ‘Choose your own adventure’ as that slogan has already been trademarked by another video game company, they can clearly see the value in such a promising idea to combine the two entertainment wise: https://www.theverge.com/2020/11/25/21720533/netflix-bandersnatch-chooseco-lawsuit-settlement-choose-your-own-adventure

Description
Much like the video game L.A. Noire; a detective role playing game where you are situated in 1947 Los Angeles and solve cases based on true crimes of the time, similarly my concept will give the user a third person perspective with an open world control where (in LA Noire) you can engage in side missions as well as having the ability to interrogate suspects in a case, and then having those decisions whether to believe them or accuse them of lying actually affect the outcome of the game. In addition to this the open world map features real landmarks that exist in real life Los Angeles (accurate depictions based on the time) can also be visited in the game developed by Rockstar Studios. My reason for mentioning LA Noire is because of the amount of success the game has had, it was also said to be ahead of it’s time and I believe the open world playability was a big factor that got overlooked. 

Whilst obviously there isn’t something tangible that is developed in terms of the fictional based OASIS which can only be described as a (massively multiplayer online simulation game) created by James Halliday and Ogden Morrow of Gregarious Simulation Systems (In the movie Ready Player One by Steven Spielberg). While starting as an online gaming platform, the OASIS gradually evolved into a globally networked virtual reality world that most of humanity now uses on a daily basis. This is a dream concept of mine in terms of open world access you are basically invited to the limits of your own imagination. The protagonist of the script Wade Watts can be quoted saying ‘You can surf a 50 foot wave on the vacation planet’ and ‘You can climb Mt Everest with Batman’ and there is also a ‘Casino the size of a planet where you can spend money and even get married’. I would like my concept to mirror this kind of open world playability where in the film players only need to exit for bathroom and food breaks meaning that entertainment wise the possibilities are endless and every desire and fantasy in real life could not only be matched in a game but could be even better due to the user’s imagination being incorporated to real life situations. https://readyplayerone.fandom.com/wiki/OASIS#:~:text=The%20OASIS%20(Ontologically%20Anthropocentric%20Sensory,Morrow%20of%20Gregarious%20Simulation%20Systems.

Much like in the Netflix movie BanderSnatch however; I realise that this concept would need to account for an uncanny number of endings. Because if I want my concept to be based on the fact that everyone could have a different possible ending, then every possible decision ever made would have to be considered and then an alternative ending for each of those decisions would have to occur. Ultimately it would depend on how many possible endings could be thought of to make the experience unique for each and every player, in Netflix’s case they seem to have 9 main endings with many more uncommon endings. https://www.businessinsider.com/bandersnatch-endings-explained-2019-1?r=AU&IR=T#3-the-balcony-ending-3. It seems as though the script writers would have had to work overtime in this case simply because of the amount of endings one movie could have, and then to make sure that none of the endings seem as though they are similar, or intersect with the others which might ruin the experience for those viewers who make it to the very end of the movie or those who see replay ability value and come back to watch it again.   

Tools and Technologies
The first tool that will be required is an advanced knowledge of the C++ language at the very least as that is associated with most modern video games. The second technology my concept will need is a fully immersive virtual reality experience such as The Void where users wear haptic suits that vibrate in 22 positions simulating real feelings as they’re portrayed by the headset which the player wears and has attached inside a computer and a real life (VR) environment of their choosing. Players also receive props that feel as though they’re weapons for fighting against monsters for example or using a torch to find companions. They will also need what’s called a gaming treadmill which allows the user to move as if they’re in an open world environment in their own home, this treadmill allows you to move in different directions and act as if you were actually walking around. Finally an advanced videography team to shoot from different angles and film all the possibilities that may occur in my open world, in LA Noire for example the game utilises MotionScan Technology which has 32 surrounding cameras to capture the characters faces from all different aspects providing a modern and realistic feel to a retro based game. https://www.businessinsider.com.au/ready-player-one-technology-vs-real-life-2018-3?r=US&IR=T

Skills Required
I believe the main skill required to make this project a successful one is employing advanced script writing techniques and storytelling ability. After all if I am attempting to create a game where everyone’s experience is unique but derived from the same beginning then the story will need to appeal to a large audience. Even still my project is majorly based on the ability to create a custom and unique experience for the end user that they can compare to their peers and discuss, I believe this service also fulfils a gap in the market where multiplayer games are concerned as these custom experiences reveal more about the player than the game itself for the first time.

Outcome  
I believe the outcome of this project if successful will be a ground breaking one as it combines some already well liked ideas and brings them together in a way that makes the experience unique for each user. My hope is that it changes the way some games are made heading into the future and hopefully some of my favourite games get re-made and follow the same technique and procedure as my concept.    

 
  
     
 
